Sometimes they make a swing shaped like a lotus flower the place Radha and Krishna sit within the heart and the eight sakhis and principal manjiris and everybody sit on the identical swing after which gopis make that go. And sometimes Radha and Krishna sit together on this swing. And sometimes Radharani puts her friends on the swing and pushes it as a result of she needs everybody to enjoy the fantastic loving emotion or devotion of being with Krishna. But usually, when we think of Jhulan Yatra, Radha Krishna sits on the attractive swing which is so wonderfully decorated by their confidential associates, adorned in such a method that all of the wealth and opulence of the world can never compare.
So the swings of Radha and Krishna are decorated with the beautiful flowers and leaves and creepers of Braja, and as they sit together having fun with the corporate of each other, all of the devotees find supreme satisfaction; in seeing Radha and Krishna Having fun- that's the final satisfaction of all the pure liberated souls of Vrindavan. They do not want one thing for themselves they solely must in a roundabout way or differentiable pastimes loved between and Radha and Krishna in any method doable be of some assist to the gorgeous pleasure.
One of the most well-liked occasions within the holy city of Vrindavan,India where Lord Krishna appeared 5,000 years in the past is the celebration of Jhulan Yatra, the Radha-Krishna swing festival. In Vrindavan among the many local villagers and inhabitants, this festival lasts for 13 days.
After receiving the normal arati worship, the Deities are pushed on Their swing. Each person affords flower petals and personal prayers, after which pushes the swing a number of times as the other members chant Hare Krishna, Jaya Radhe Jaya Krishna Jaya Vrindavan, or Jaya Radhe, Jaya Jaya Madhava dayite in kirtan. The atmosphere of this pageant is especially sweet as everyone has the chance to intimately serve Radha and Krishna.
These festivals should not in anyway mere rituals, as all of them have sensible service functionality to invoke loving servitude of the devotees for the Lord. Lord Sri Krishna is the Supreme enjoyer and does not need to work laborious like us in this world. Everything He does is pleasurable, and He organizes many scenarios during which he can incorporate us, His separated elements and parcels into His loving service which is our natural situation in the spiritual realm
When Sri Krishna had his pastimes in rural Vrindavan with His cowherd friends together they lovingly tended the cows and wandered within the pastures taking part in, frolicking, and feasting. Throughout the various seasons all of them continuously loved being part of Sri Krishna's pastimes, and rendering loving service to Him as greatest
It is a most pleasing and satisfying festival, with the swings often highly adorned with forest creepers, Jasmine (Malati) that has newly blossomed in the season, and streamers of garlands. Sometimes they use a fine spray of rose water and direct it towards the Divine couple of Radha and Krishna on Their swing
All glories to Radha and Krishna and the divine forest of Vrindavana. All glories to the three presiding Deities of Vrindavana—Sri Govinda, Gopinatha, and Madana-mohana.
All glories to Syama-kunda, Radha-kunda, Govardhana Hill, and the Yamuna River (Kalindi). All glories to the great forest known as Mahavana, where Krishna and Balarama displayed all of Their childhood pastimes.
All glories to Kesi-ghata, where Krishna killed the Kesi demon. All glories to the Vamsi-vata tree, where Krishna attracted all the gopis to come by playing His flute. Glories to all of the twelve forests of Vraja. At these places the son of Nanda, Sri Krishna, performed all of His pastimes.
All glories to Krishna’s divine father and mother, Nanda and Yasoda. All glories to the cowherd boys, headed by Sridama, the older brother of Srimati Radharani and Ananga Manjari. All glories to the cows and calves of Vraja.
All glories to Radha’s divine father and mother, Vrishabhanu and the beautiful Kirtida. All glories to  Paurnamasi, the mother of Sandipani Muni, grandmother of Madhumangala and Nandimukhi, and beloved disciple of Devarshi Narada. All glories to the young cowherd maidens of Vraja.
All glories, all glories to Gopisvara Siva, who resides in Vrindavana in order to protect the holy dhama.  All glories, all glories to Krishna’s funny brahmana friend, Madhumangala.
All glories to Rama-ghata, where Lord Balarama performed His rasa dance. All glories to Lord Balarama, the son of Rohini. All glories, all glories to all of the residents of Vrindavana.
All glories to the wives of the proud Vedic brahmanas. All glories to the wives of the Kaliya serpent.  Through pure devotion they all obtained the lotus feet of Lord Govinda.
All glories to the place where the rasa dance of Sri Krishna was performed. All glories to Radha and Syama.  All glories, all glories to the divine rasa dance, which is the most beautiful of all Lord Krishna’s pastimes.
All glories, all glories to the mellow of conjugal love, which is the most excellent of all rasas and is propagated in Vraja by Sri Krishna in the form of the divine parakiya-bhava [paramour love].
Remembering the lotus feet of Lord Nityananda’s consort, Sri Jahnava Devi, this very fallen and lowly servant of Krishna sings the sankirtana of the holy name.
