Lord Krishna was born to King Vasudeva and his wife Devaki. Devaki's brother Kansa was a cruel man who engaged in heinous activities.  During Devaki and Vasudeva's wedding rituals, Kansa is warned by the astrologers that their child would kill him. Hearing this, Kansa imprisons the couple and kills every child that is born them.  But when Krishna is born, Vasudeva secretly arranges for the infant to be carried away and replaces him with another baby (Krishna's foster-mother Yashoda's daughter).  When evil Kansa tries to kill this replaced baby, she turns into goddess Adi Parashakti and warns him that his death has arrived and nothing can change his fate.  Meanwhile, the newborn Krishna is carried to the other side of the river Yamuna, where he is rescued and fostered by Nanda and his wife Yashoda in Gokul. The birth of Lord Krishna is celebrated as Krishnashtami or Janmashtami.
Kansa, who knows that the eighth child born to Devaki, would be his slayer, sends his soldiers to find the infant. But as they return empty-handed, Kansa sends the Queen of Demons, Putana, to kill Lord Krishna.  She schemes to kill Lord Krishna by feeding him her poisoned breastmilk. Putana goes to Gokul, disguised as a beautiful maiden. She reaches Krishna's home and nurses him with the poisoned milk. Even as she hopes to kill the infant Krishna, he sucks her life out of her breasts and kills her.
One day, when Krishna was playing with his friends, an enormous bull enters Vrindavan and begins to attack everyone. People run helter-skelter, creating a commotion.  Just then, Krishna sees the bull and confronts it. He realizes that the bull is a demon named Arishtasura, sent by his uncle Kansa to kill him. He challenges Arishtasura to a fight and after a fierce battle, kills him. The soul leaves the body of the bull, bows to Krishna, and tells him how he was cursed to become a demon when he did not obey and respect his guru Lord Brihaspati.
A giant black serpent, Kaaliya enters Vrindavan and begins living, along with his family, in the river Yamuna. Kaaliya slowly turns the river water poisonous with its venom, making the lives of villagers miserable. People try everything possible to get rid of the black serpent.  Lord Krishna could not see his people suffering and decides to fight Kaaliya. Krishna gathers the weight of the entire planet, jumps on Kaaliya's head and starts hitting the serpent by dancing on it.  Kaaliya begins vomiting blood and loses all the strength. When Kaaliya is nearing death, his wives appear and pray to Krishna, asking for mercy. Krishna grants mercy to the serpent; Kaaliya realizes the greatness and strength of Lord Krishna and promises to leave the river.  The serpent leaves the river and Vrindavan forever, and people rejoice the victory of Krishna.
One day, Krishna and his brother Balarama went to a garden to pick fruits and berries. As Krishna was still a toddler, he could not reach the fruits. He stuffs his mouth with dust and sand from the ground. When the other children see Krishna doing this, they go and complain to his mother.  Yashoda comes running to Krishna and sternly asks if he ate mud. Krishna denies having eaten mud and refuses to open his mouth. But when Yashoda insists, he opens his mouth, leaving Yashoda startled.  Krishna gives a naughty grin as Yashoda does not see any mud but the entire universe, including the sun, stars, skies, oceans, hills, rivers, and mountains. She realizes her son is not an ordinary child.
Krishna was fond of butter as a child and would steal it from home and neighbors too. His stories of stealing butter were famous all over Vrindavan. His mother, Yashoda, would hang the butter pitcher high up on the roof so that Krishna can't reach it.  One day, when Yashoda goes out on an important task, Krishna gathers his friends to steal the butter. Initially, his friends refuse to help but later give in to their friend's pressure. Krishna takes the help of all his friends, stands up on their shoulders to reach the pitcher.  Even as they are engrossed in the mischief, Yashoda comes in and witnesses their mischief. Krishna's friends escape quickly but he gets caught by his mother. Yashoda gets furious and runs after Krishna to punish him.
Krishna and his brother Balarama helped their father take care of their cattle. They, along with their friends, took the cattle out for grazing. Krishna often played the flute and sang songs while the cows grazed.  One day, while the cows were grazing, Krishna noticed a new cow in the herd. Her unusual look panics the children around. But the two brothers silently approach the cow, hold her by her horns and throw her into a nearby lake.  When the cow falls, she comes out of the disguised form and takes the original shape of a monster, which was sent by Kansa to kill Krishna. Everyone rejoices at the death of the monster.
Every year, the people of Vrindavan performed prayers to please Lord Indra for good rains for their crops.  One year, Lord Krishna explains the villagers about the importance of Dharma'. He elaborates how they have to focus on working hard and being sincere in their duties. Everyone gets convinced and decides not to offer prayers to Lord Indra.  This enrages Lord Indra, who sends a huge storm to the village. Vrindavan is flooded with rainwater and people start looking for a safe place. Krishna lifts the Govardhan hill on his little finger and people and their livestock take shelter under the hill for days.  Lord Indra realizes his mistake and stops the rain.
Krishna's father Nanda was fasting on one ekadasi (the 11th lunar day). He goes to take a dip in the holy river Yamuna just before the sunrise. The servants of demigod Varuna capture and present Nanda in front of their lord, accusing him of taking a bath in the river at a demonic time.  Krishna and his brother Balrama search for their father after his sudden disappearance. Then they hear sounds coming from the river and understand that demigod Varuna has captured their father.  When Krishna visits Varuna, they engage in a heartwarming conversation. Varuna realizes the mistake committed by his servants, apologizes to Krishna, and releases Nanda immediately.
One fine summer day, Lord Krishna, along with his friends and their cows, goes deep into a forest. They get so immersed in the playful activities that they do not realize about the wildfire spreading rapidly.  By the time they realize, the fire comes too close to them. Krishna's friends plead with him to save them. He asks everyone to close their eyes. While everyone keeps their eyes closed, Krishna swallows the colossal wildfire and protects everyone from the mishap.
There was a fruit seller in Mathura, who hears about toddler Krishna and his cuteness from people. She hears about him so much that she decides to go to Gokul and see his charm.  She goes to Gokul and keeps selling fruits there with the hope to see toddler Krishna someday. One day, as the fruit vendor is passing by Krishna's house, he gets tempted by the fresh fruits that she is carrying, and asks her to give him some.  The fruit vendor agrees to give him fruits if he sat on her lap and called her mother. Toddler Krishna hesitates but eventually relents. He calls the woman mother, sits on her lap and requests for fruits.  The woman is so carried away by the cute toddler that she gives away everything she has with her. On her way home, she realizes that her fruit basket is filled with jewels and precious stones. However, she throws them away in the river because for her seeing Lord Krishna was more valuable than any wealth in this world.
One day, Yashoda catches toddler Krishna redhanded while stealing butter. She gets a long rope to tie him to a tree, but swift Krishna runs away from her. Yashoda chases him for a long time but eventually gives up. On seeing his exhausted mother, Krishna goes up to his mother and asks her to tie him up.  As the rope seems too small, Yashoda ties Krishna to heavy mortar. Sometime later, there is a loud noise and people gather to check what it is. They see that little Krishna drags the enormously heavy mortar and pulls down the two trees standing nearby.  The trees are the cursed sons of Kubera, the God of Wealth. As Krishna pulls down the trees, they get liberated from the curse.
One day, Lord Brahma decides to test Lord Krishna if he really is the Parabrahma (universal lord) or not. In order to test Krishna, Lord Brahma kidnaps every child and calf of Vrindavan and hides all of them in his world. Krishna understands that this is the handiwork of Brahma and decides to teach him a lesson.  Krishna multiplies himself into all the missing children and calves. He and all his forms return to the village. People do not find any difference, and life goes on as usual. In fact, they feel happy as they begin to receive increased love and affection from their children'.  Lord Brahma realizes his mistake and releases all the children with their cattle and calves.
Lord Krishna has more than 108 names of which one is Govinda. Govinda means the protector of cows. There is a story on how Krishna got this name.  One day, celestial cow Kamadhenu meets Krishna and tells him that she came from Devlok, the kingdom of heaven, to perform the abhishekam, the crowning ceremony.  Kamadhenu bathes him in holy water brought from the heavens and thanks Lord Krishna for protecting all the cows. Lord Indra, who joins them, also does the abhishekam and gives him the name Govinda.
Akrura, the great devotee of Lord KrishnaAkrura, the great devotee of Lord Krishna In his yet another attempt to kill Krishna, Kansa tells his minister Akrura to go to Vrindavan and bring Krishna and Balarama to perform a holy yajna in Mathura. Kansa is not aware that Akrura is a great devotee of Krishna.  Akrura reaches Vrindavan, and brings Krishna and Balarama to Mathura. But on the way, he is overwhelmed with devotion and reveals Kansa's evil plans to Krishna. He pleads with Krishna to go back to Vrindavan. On hearing Akrura, Krishna smiles and decides to go ahead with his journey to Mathura.
One day, Lord Krishna decides to test the love of his devotees. He pretends to have a headache and tells sage Narada that he could recover only if any of his true devotees collected the dust from their feet and smeared it on his forehead. The startled Narada goes to Krishna's wives for help.  All his wives disagree to do that as Krishna is their husband and putting their feet's dust on his forehead would mean being disrespectful to Lord Krishna. Narada, then, goes to gopis and explains the situation.  The gopis are overwhelmed with sorrow. They quickly collect dust and give it to Narada. He realizes that their devotion is so blind that they didn't think about the repercussions that might happen.
The battle of KurukshetraThe battle of Kurukshetra On the 15th day of the battle of Kurukshetra, Karna has a face-to-face fight with Arjuna. A fierce battle takes place between them, and Karna fires an arrow, which almost hits Arjuna. But Krishna, the charioteer of Arjuna, lowers the chariot and helps Arjuna escape the arrow.  Arjuna shoots several arrows at Karna in return when the latter's chariot gets stuck in the mud. Karna gets down to push his stuck chariot and asks Arjuna to stop shooting. He observes that it is unfair to target him while he is pushing the wheel out.  Krishna replies, You shot at unarmed Abhimanyu, was that fair? referring to how Kauravas broke the code of war and mercilessly killed Arjuna's son Abhimanyu. Hearing Krishna, Arjuna is filled with righteous anger and revenge and kills Karna.
Aeons ago, there lived a king named Ugrasena. He had two children  a son named Kamsa and a daughter named Devaki. Devaki was a good-natured person, but Kamsa had an evil mind. When he grew up, he dethroned his father and put him in jail.  Meanwhile, his sister Devaki married king Vasudeva. As Kamsa was escorting his sister to her in-laws' place, a voice rang out from the skies  The eighth son of your sister will grow up to kill you. Kamsa wanted to put his sister to death to save his life. But Vasudeva begged Kamsa to spare his wife. He promised that he would hand over every child of theirs. Kamsa was pacified and put the couple behind bars.
Kamsa imprisoned Devaki and Vasudeva and ordered his soldiers to guard the cell. Every time Devaki gave birth to a child, Kamsa would visit the couple and take away their baby. Dashing it to the wall, he would kill it. When Devaki was pregnant for the seventh time, the foetus was miraculously transferred to Rohini's womb in Vrindavan. Kamsa was told that it had been a stillbirth. Devaki and Vasudeva's eighth child Krishna was born at the stroke of midnight. This special day is now celebrated as Janmashtami.
As soon as Krishna was born, the guards manning Devaki and Vasudeva's cell went into a deep slumber, and the locks fell open.  Placing baby Krishna in a wicker basket, Vasudeva left for Gokul. When he reached the Yamuna river, he saw that it was flooded due to the pouring rain. But he had to save Krishna's life. So, without fearing for his own life, Vasudeva started walking across the river. With his every step, the waters receded, and Lord Vishnu's serpent Adishesha protected baby Krishna from the rain.  When Krishna reached Nanda's house, he saw that his wife Yashoda had given birth to a baby girl. Slowly, he picked the baby up and placed Krishna in her place. Then, he returned to the prison with the baby. Devaki and Vasudeva had hoped that Kamsa would spare the baby girl because the prophecy had mentioned Devaki's eighth son. But Kamsa didn't care. He snatched the baby from their hands and flung her against a wall. Miraculously, the baby transformed into Goddess Durga and informed Kamsa that Devaki's eighth son was alive and would soon come for him.
Kamsa was desperate to kill Krishna, so he called for the fearful demoness Putana. He told her to assume the form of a beautiful, young woman and kill all the babies that had been born in the previous ten days. As this gave her an opportunity to instil fear in people's hearts, Putana readily assented.  Putana entered Krishna's village. When she heard everybody talking about Yashoda's newborn, the demoness immediately knew that this was the child she had to eliminate. Distracting Yashoda, she made Krishna suckle on her poison-smeared nipples. The poison did nothing to him, but Putana died.
Krishna loved eating butter. As he grew older, Krishna started stealing butter from his own house and neighbours'. Yashoda hung up the butter so that Krishna wouldn't be able to reach it. Slowly, other gopis also followed suit.  Krishna and his friends weren't the ones to give up easily. They worked out a solution to this. The next time they raided a house for butter, Krishna made his friends form a human pyramid. He reached the top and broke the pot of butter. The friends relished it, much to the anger and disappointment of the gopis!
Yashoda was so fed up of Krishna's antics that, one day, she tied him to a mortar. To free himself, Krishna crawled to the two trees in his courtyard. Then, he proceeded to crawl through the passage between the trees. The mortar got stuck in the gap. Taking advantage of this, Krishna pulled the rope with all his strength. The trees came crashing down and two demigods Nalakuvara and Manigriva emerged. Krishna had freed them from their curse!
Once when Krishna and Balarama were playing, the avatar of Lord Vishnu stuffed a handful of mud into his mouth. When Krishna's friends complained to his mother. Yashoda ran to him and asked him to open his mouth. Initially, he refused to. But when Yashoda gave him a stern look, Krishna obliged.  What Yashoda saw wasn't mud but the entire universe. That's when she realised that Krishna was the Lord in disguise!
Every day, Krishna would take his cows to graze by the river. Suddenly, cows started dying after drinking from the river. With his divine power, Krishna realised that the ten-headed serpent Kaliya was poisoning the water with his venom.  He confronted Kaliya and asked him to stop, but the stubborn serpent refused. Krishna dived into the river and emerged dancing on Kaliya's head. By then, all the villagers had gathered and were anxious for Krishna. Slowly, the Lord became heavier and heavier, until the serpent couldn't bear his weight any longer. Kaliya's wives begged Krishna to stop and they left the river, never to return.
One day, a massive bull came to Vrindavan and started attacking the villagers. Nobody knew where it had come from. Everybody started running helter-skelter to save their lives. They went to Krishna for help.  When Krishna faced the bull, he realised that it was possessed by a demon called Arishthasura. Krishna managed to tackle the bull and pierce its horns! Finally, the demon left the bull's body and bowed to the Lord. He said that he was a disciple of Lord Brihaspati and had been cursed to become a bull as he had disrespected his teacher.
After Krishna had defeated the demon Arishtasura, the celestial sage Narada informed Kamsa that Krishna was very much alive and would kill him. Fuming with rage, Kamsa summoned the demon Keshi and commanded him to kill the lad.  Keshi assumed the form of a fearful horse and started terrorising the inhabitants of Vrindavan. Krishna understood that the demon was challenging him to a fight. So, he confronted the horse. On seeing the young lad, the horse charged at him. Krishna, however, caught one of the horse's legs and threw it a hundred yards away. When Keshi regained consciousness, he charged at Krishna with his mouth open. The Lord pushed his left arm into the horse's mouth, making its teeth fall out. Then, inflating his arm, he killed it. That was the end of Keshi.
Once, Lord Brahma decided to test Krishna's powers. So, he hid all the children and calves of Vrindavan in Brahma Loka. Krishna was unhappy with Brahma's doing, and decided to teach him a lesson. So, he assumed the form of all his friends and calves and went to their homes. Nobody could even tell the difference.  When Brahma decided to check the situation in Vrindavan, he was shocked to see all the children and calves. Lord Bramha immediately realised his mistake and asked Krishna for forgiveness.
It was a ritual among the inhabitants of Vrindavan to worship Indra, the god of rain. Once, when preparations were in full swing, Krishna suggested that the villagers should rather worship the Govardhan hill. They assented and started worshipping the hill. This made Indra very angry, and he let his rain clouds loose over the village.  It poured cats and dogs for days on end, and everybody sought Krishna's help. Unable to see his devotees in plight, the Lord lifted the Govardhan with his little finger. He asked the villagers to take shelter under the hill and stood in that position for seven nights. Indra realised his mistake and apologised to Krishna.
Once, Krishna and his friends set out on a picnic to the nearby forest. While they were enjoying, Aghasura, who was the brother of Putana, appeared at that spot. He had been sent by Kamsa to kill Krishna. The demon assumed the form of a python and made himself as long as a cave and as big as a mountain. Then, he lay in wait.  The cowherd boys, enticed by the beauty of the cave, entered it. Krishna knew that it was Aghasura and tried to warn his friends, but they were in no mood to listen. The demon had plans of closing his mouth once Krishna had entered his mouth. To save his friends, Krishna entered the cave and expanded himself. This suffocated the demon and lead to his death.
Kamsa had been trying to kill Krishna but in vain. So, he hatched another plan. With his servant Akura, he sent a message inviting Krishna and Balarama to the wrestling match at Mathura.  Both of them agreed to attend the event. Once there, Kamsa pitted the brothers against two of his strongest wrestlers. Krishna and Balarama accepted the challenge, and easily defeated their opponents.  Kamsa lost his temper and ordered his soldiers to kill the boys. Hearing this, Krishna jumped into the stands, knocked Kamsa's crown off his head and dragged him by the hair to the wrestling ring. Desperate to prove his might, the asura challenged Krishna to a wrestling bout. With one blow of Krishna's hand, Kamsa fell dead. The Lord set his birth parents, Devaki and Vasudeva free, and placed Ugrasena back on the throne.
